Gwenview is an image viewer for KDE.

IMAGE VIEWING
Gwenview can load and save all image formats supported by KDE. It
correctly displays images with alpha channel, using the traditionnal
checker board as a background to reveal transparency. Gwenview lets
you accurately control the way images are scaled: you can zoom in and
out or automatically scale the image to fit the window. Zoom is locked
so that you can easily compare images by going back and forth. When
browsing JPEG images with EXIF information, Gwenview automatically
rotates them according to the EXIF orientation tag. It can show image
properties and image specific meta-information like Dolphin does. It
knows about animated images like MNG or GIF and is also capable of
displaying vector images in SVG format as well as playing videos.

IMAGE MANIPULATIONS
Gwenview does not try to replace your favorite image editor, so it
only features simple image manipulations: rotation, mirroring,
cropping, resizing and red eye reduction. When working with JPEG
files, Gwenview performs lossless manipulations.

BROWSING YOUR COLLECTIONS OF IMAGES
Gwenview features the necessary file management operations: copy,
move, delete, rename and drag 'n' drop images. It has full support for
KIO slaves: you can browse FTP/Windows shares, go into tarballs or zip
files.

PRESENTING YOUR IMAGES
The fullscreen with optional thumbnail bar and the simple built-in
slide show allows you to present images the way you want them to show.

THE INTERFACE
Gwenview features a browse mode to get a quick overview of images in a
folder and a view mode to go through one image at a time. The view
mode can also display a thumbnail bar.

KPARTS
Gwenview can be used both as a standalone application and embedded in
other KDE applications through the KPart system. For example, thanks
to Gwenview image KPart, Konqueror can display images using Gwneview,
letting you zoom in and out as well as rotate it.

WWW: http://gwenview.sourceforge.net
