Copyright / Warranty / License
==============================

Products are Copyright 1994-2014 by Jsoftware Inc. All rights reserved.

Warranty and License Agreement
------------------------------

Jsoftware Inc. ("Licensor") is willing to license the enclosed software to you
only if you accept all of the terms in this license agreement. Please read the
terms carefully before you install this package, because by installing the
package you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this agreement. If you do
not agree to these terms, licensor will not license this software to you, and in
that case you should delete the software and return any/all related written
materials promptly, for a refund.

Ownership of the Software
-------------------------

The software program, J ("Software") and the accompanying written materials are
owned by Licensor [or its suppliers] and are protected by United States
copyright laws, by laws of other nations, and by international treaties.

You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software.

Limited Warranty
----------------

Licensor warrants that the Software will perform substantially in accordance
with the accompanying written materials for a period of 90 days from the date of
your receipt of the Software. Any implied warranties on the Software are limited
to 90 days. Some States do not allow limitations on duration of an implied
warranty, so the above limitation may not apply to you.

Licensor disclaims all other warranties, either express or implied, including
but not limited to implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose, and non-infringement, with respect to the software and the
accompanying written materials. Licensor's entire liability and your exclusive
remedy shall be, at licensor's choice, either (a) return of the price paid or
(b) replacement of the software that does not meet licensor's limited warranty
and which is returned to licensor with a copy of your receipt. Any replacement
software will be warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or
30 days, whichever is longer. These remedies are not available outside the
United States of America.

This limited warranty is void if failure of the software has resulted from
modification, accident, abuse, or misapplication. In no event will licensor be
liable to you for damages, including any loss of profits, lost savings, or other
incidental or consequential damages arising out of your use or inability to use
the software. If you have any questions concerning this agreement or wish to
contact licensor for any reason, please email: info@jsoftware.com.

U.S. Government Restricted Rights. The Software and documentation are provided
with Restricted Rights. Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is
subject to restrictions set forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of The Rights in
Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or
subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights
at 48 CFR 52.227-19, as applicable. Supplier is Jsoftware Inc.
